README.md, before:

# FastAPI Book Management API

## Overview

This project is a RESTful API built with FastAPI for managing a book collection. It provides comprehensive CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) operations for books with proper error handling, input validation, and documentation.

## Features

- 📚 Book management (CRUD operations)
- ✅ Input validation using Pydantic models
- 🔍 Enum-based genre classification
- 🧪 Complete test coverage
- 📝 API documentation (auto-generated by FastAPI)
- 🔒 CORS middleware enabled

## Project Structure

```
fastapi-book-project/
├── api/
│   ├── db/
│   │   ├── __init__.py
│   │   └── schemas.py      # Data models and in-memory database
│   ├── routes/
│   │   ├── __init__.py
│   │   └── books.py        # Book route handlers
│   └── router.py           # API router configuration
├── core/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   └── config.py           # Application settings
├── tests/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   └── test_books.py       # API endpoint tests
├── main.py                 # Application entry point
├── requirements.txt        # Project dependencies
└── README.md
```

## Technologies Used

- Python 3.12
- FastAPI
- Pydantic
- pytest
- uvicorn

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/hng12-devbotops/fastapi-book-project.git
cd fastapi-book-project
```

2. Create a virtual environment:

```bash
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
```

3. Install dependencies:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Running the Application

1. Start the server:

```bash
uvicorn main:app
```

2. Access the API documentation:

- Swagger UI: http://localhost:8000/docs
- ReDoc: http://localhost:8000/redoc

## API Endpoints

### Books

- `GET /api/v1/books/` - Get all books
- `GET /api/v1/books/{book_id}` - Get a specific book
- `POST /api/v1/books/` - Create a new book
- `PUT /api/v1/books/{book_id}` - Update a book
- `DELETE /api/v1/books/{book_id}` - Delete a book

### Health Check

- `GET /healthcheck` - Check API status

## Book Schema

```json
{
  "id": 1,
  "title": "Book Title",
  "author": "Author Name",
  "publication_year": 2024,
  "genre": "Fantasy"
}
```

Available genres:

- Science Fiction
- Fantasy
- Horror
- Mystery
- Romance
- Thriller

## Running Tests

```bash
pytest
```

## Error Handling

The API includes proper error handling for:

- Non-existent books
- Invalid book IDs
- Invalid genre types
- Malformed requests

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit changes (`git commit -m 'Add AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Support

For support, please open an issue in the GitHub repository.

Commit message:

docs(deploy): update documentation to include deployment instructions

README.md, after:

# FastAPI Book Management API

## Overview

This project is a RESTful API built with FastAPI for managing a book collection. It provides comprehensive CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) operations for books with proper error handling, input validation, and documentation.

## Features

- 📚 Book management (CRUD operations)
- ✅ Input validation using Pydantic models
- 🔍 Enum-based genre classification
- 🧪 Complete test coverage
- 📝 API documentation (auto-generated by FastAPI)
- 🔒 CORS middleware enabled

## Project Structure

```
fastapi-book-project/
├── api/
│   ├── db/
│   │   ├── __init__.py
│   │   └── schemas.py      # Data models and in-memory database
│   ├── routes/
│   │   ├── __init__.py
│   │   └── books.py        # Book route handlers
│   └── router.py           # API router configuration
├── core/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   └── config.py           # Application settings
├── tests/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   └── test_books.py       # API endpoint tests
├── main.py                 # Application entry point
├── requirements.txt        # Project dependencies
└── README.md
```

## Technologies Used

- Python 3.12
- FastAPI
- Pydantic
- pytest
- uvicorn

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/hng12-devbotops/fastapi-book-project.git
cd fastapi-book-project
```

2. Create a virtual environment:

```bash
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows: venv\Scripts\activate
```

3. Install dependencies:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Running the Application

1. Start the server:

```bash
uvicorn main:app
```

2. Access the API documentation:

- Swagger UI: http://localhost:8000/docs
- ReDoc: http://localhost:8000/redoc

## Docker Setup and Deployment

1. Build the Docker image:

```bash
docker build -t fastapi-app .
```

2. Run the Docker container:

```bash
docker run -d -p 80:80 -p 8000:8000 fastapi-app
```

This will start your FastAPI application with Nginx as a reverse proxy, all managed by Supervisor inside the Docker container.

## API Endpoints

### Books

- `GET /api/v1/books/` - Get all books
- `GET /api/v1/books/{book_id}` - Get a specific book
- `POST /api/v1/books/` - Create a new book
- `PUT /api/v1/books/{book_id}` - Update a book
- `DELETE /api/v1/books/{book_id}` - Delete a book

### Health Check

- `GET /healthcheck` - Check API status

## Book Schema

```json
{
  "id": 1,
  "title": "Book Title",
  "author": "Author Name",
  "publication_year": 2024,
  "genre": "Fantasy"
}
```

Available genres:

- Science Fiction
- Fantasy
- Horror
- Mystery
- Romance
- Thriller

## Running Tests

```bash
pytest
```

## Error Handling

The API includes proper error handling for:

- Non-existent books
- Invalid book IDs
- Invalid genre types
- Malformed requests

## Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit changes (`git commit -m 'Add AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Support

For support, please open an issue in the GitHub repository.
